Title: The Setup
Date: January 7, 2016
Author: orkim
Category: Evennia
Status: Draft

OK, it is time to get serious. I mean really serious! I need to get an
environment set up to do some serious work. Did I mention that this is serious?

I'm a big fan of lists, so I'm going to make one to outline all the things I'll
need.

 * Server - Linux; Debian or Ubuntu will do!
 * Terminal Multiplexer - [tmux](https://tmux.github.io/)
 * Editor - [vim](http://www.vim.org)
 * git
 * Python
 * virtualenv
 * [Evennia](http://www.evennia.org/)!!!

The versions available from the distributions repositories are recent enough
for me. A few apt-get commands later and I have got them installed and ready to
begin work.

TODO: talk about getting this right; its important to be familiar with your
tools and how they work together

Every project should start off in the right direction, and for my projects I
really like to try to stay organized. Yes, I did say "try" to stay organized.
One of the biggest messes I make for myself is by just throwing around files
here and there until my directories are a mess.  So lets define a logical file
system layout and try to stick to it.

I have decided to use the following structure.

     /home/orkim            - my home directory
     /home/orkim/<gamename> - the (unnamed-so-far) game directory
     /home/orkim/evennia    - my personal Evennia fork (more about this below)
     /home/orkim/venv       - stores all virtualenv that we use

You might have noticed I haven't named the game yet. I like putting those sorts
of things off.

TODO:

talk about the getting started page

now forget that, and lets setup like a real developer. talk about forking,
cloning, and adding an upstream remote (in case we ever contribute back)

name our game!

evennia --init; evennia migrate; evennia start

go through making an admin user. connect up. and go ahead and create a
non-admin user for testing.

pro tip - copy out the database file for quick recoveries

yay! we got it all setup and running!
